SYMMETRIC AND PUBLIC KEY ALGORITHMS Learning Objectives: After reading this INFORMATION SHEET, YOU MUST be able to:

Have a knowledge about the model for network access security.
Have a knowledge about the secure use of symmetric encryption.
Identify the basic building blocks on the all encryption techniques.
Have a knowledge about the classical encryption techniques. Encryption/Decryption methods fall into two categories. a. Symmetric key b. Public key
A message is to be transferred from one party to another across some sort of internet. The two parties, who are the principals in this transaction, must cooperate for the exchange to take place. A logical information channel is established by defining a route through the internet from source to destination and by the cooperative use of communication protocols (e.g., TCP/IP) by the two principals. Using this model requires us to:

Design a suitable algorithm for the security transformation.
Generate the secret information (keys) used by the algorithm.
Develop methods to distribute and share the secret information.
Specify a protocol enabling the principals to use the transformation and secret information for a security service. In symmetric key algorithms, the encryption and decryption keys are known both to sender and receiver. The encryption key is shared and the decryption key is easily calculated from it. In many cases, the encryption and decryption keys are the same. In public key cryptography, encryption key is made public, but it is computationally infeasible to find the decryption key without the information known to the receiver.
Using this model requires us to:

Select appropriate gatekeeper functions to identify users.
Implement security controls to ensure only authorized users access designated information or resources. Trusted computer systems can be used to implement this model. Conventional Encryption
Referred conventional / private-key / single-key.
Sender and recipient share a common key. All classical encryption algorithms are private-key was only type prior to invention of public key in 1970‟plaintext - the original message.
Here the original message, referred to as plaintext, is converted into apparently random nonsense, referred to as cipher text. The encryption process consists of an algorithm and a key. The key is a value independent of the plaintext. Changing the key changes the output of the algorithm. Once the cipher text is produced, it may be transmitted. Upon reception, the cipher text can be transformed back to the original plaintext by using a decryption algorithm and the same key that was used for encryption. The security depends on several factors. First, the encryption algorithm must be powerful enough that it is impractical to decrypt a message on the basis of cipher text alone. Beyond that, the security depends on the secrecy of the key, not the secrecy of the algorithm. Two requirements for secure use of symmetric encryption:

A strong encryption algorithm
A secret key known only to sender / receiver a. Y = EK(X) b. X = DK(Y) i. assume encryption algorithm is known ii. implies a secure channel to distribute key
A source produces a message in plaintext, X = [X1, X2… XM] where M, are the number of letters in the message. A key of the form K = [K1, K2… KJ] is generated. If the key is generated at the source, then it must be provided to the destination by means of some secure channel. With the message X and the encryption key K as input, the encryption algorithm forms the cipher text Y = [Y1, Y2, YN]. This can be expressed as Y = EK(X). The intended receiver, in possession of the key, is able to invert the transformation: X = DK(Y) An opponent, observing Y but not having access to K or X, may attempt to recover X or Kor both. It is assumed that the opponent knows the encryption and decryption algorithms. If the opponent is interested in only this particular message, then the focus of effort is to recover X by generating a plaintext estimate. Often if the opponent is interested in beingable to read future messages as well, in which case an attempt is made to recover K by generating an estimate. Classical Encryption Techniques There are two basic building blocks of all encryption techniques which are substitution and transposition. A substitution technique is one in which the letters of plaintext are replaced by other letters or by numbers or symbols. If the plaintext is viewed as a sequence of bits, then substitution involves replacing plaintext bit patterns with cipher text bit patterns. Caesar cipher (or) shift cipher The earliest known use of a substitution cipher and the simplest was by Julius Caesar. The Caesar cipher involves replacing each letter of the alphabet with the letter standing 3 places further down the alphabet. An example is plain text: pay more money. Cipher text: SDB PRUH PRQHB Note that the alphabet is wrapped around, so that letter following „z‟ is „a‟. For each plaintext letter p, substitute the cipher text letter c such that C = E(p) = (p+3) mod 26 A shift may be any amount, so that general Caesar algorithm is C = E (p) = (p+k) mod 26 Where k, takes on a value in the range 1 to 25. The decryption algorithm is simply P = D(C) = (C-k) mod 26 Playfair cipher The best known multiple letter encryption cipher is the playfair, which treats diagrams in the plaintext as single units and translates these units into cipher text diagrams. The playfair algorithm is based on the use of 5x5 matrix of letters constructed using a keyword. Let the keyword be „monarchy‟. The matrix is constructed by filling in the letters of the keyword (minus duplicates) from left to right and from top to bottom, and then filling in the remainder of the matrix with the remaining letters in alphabetical order. The letter I and j count as one letter. Plaintext is encrypted two letters at a time According to the following rules: Repeating plaintext letters that would fall in the same pair are separated with a Filler letter such as x. Plaintext letters that fall in the same row of the matrix are each replaced by the letter to the right, with the first element of the row following the last. Plaintext letters that fall in the same column are replaced by the letter beneath, with the top element of the column following the last. Otherwise, each plaintext letter is replaced by the letter that lies in its own row and the column occupied by the other plaintext letter. In this case, the keyword is monarchy. The matrix is constructed by filling in the letters of the keyword (minus duplicates) from left to right and from top to bottom, and then filling in the remainder of the matrix with the remaining letters in alphabetic order. The letters I and J count as one letter. Plaintext is encrypted two letters at a time according to the following rules:

Repeating plaintext letters that would fall in the same pair are separated with a filler letter, such as x, so that balloon would be enciphered as ba lx lo on.
Plaintext letters that fall in the same row of the matrix are each replaced by the letter to the right, with the first element of the row circularly following the last. For example ar, is encrypted as RM.
Plaintext letters that fall in the same column are each replaced by the letter beneath, with the top element of the row circularly following the last. For example, mu is encrypted as CM.
Otherwise, each plaintext letter is replaced by the letter that lies in its own row and column occupied by the other plaintext letter. Thus, hs becomes BP and ea becomes IM (or JM, as the encipherer wishes).
Information Sheet 1.4 CYBER SECURITY Learning Objectives: After reading this INFORMATION SHEET, YOU MUST be able to:

Have a knowledge about the importance of cyber security.
Have a knowledge about the steps you can take you increase security and reduce risk of cybercrime.
Identify the activities that are essential in enabling your business to protect itself against attack and respond to a rapidly evolving threat landscape.
Have a knowledge about enterprise security architecture. Enterprise Security is a security mechanism dealing with providing confidentiality, integrity, authentication, authorization and non-repudiation related to the entire organization’s computing resources. Why is Cyber security Important? Cyber security is important because it encompasses everything that pertains to protecting our sensitive data, personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), personal information, intellectual property, data, and governmental and industry information systems from theft and damage attempted by criminals and adversaries. a. Cyber security risk is increasing, driven by global connectivity and usage of cloud services, like Amazon Web Services, to store sensitive data and personal information. Widespread poor configuration of cloud services paired with increasingly sophisticated cyber criminals means the risk that your organization suffers from a successful cyberattack or data breach is on the rise. b. Gone are the days of simple firewalls and antivirus software being your sole security measures. Business leaders can no longer leave information security to cyber security professionals. c. Cyber threats can come from any level of your organization. You must educate your staff about simple social engineering scams like phishing and more sophisticated cyber security attacks like ransom ware (think WannaCry) or other malware designed to steal intellectual property or personal data. d. General Data Protection and Regulation(GDPR) and other laws mean that cyber security is no longer something businesses of any size can ignore. Security incidents regularly affect businesses of all sizes and often make the front page causing irreversible reputational damage to the companies involved.
The importance of cyber security Our society is more technologically reliant than ever before and there is no sign that this trend will slow. Personal data that could result in identity theft is now posted to the public on our social media accounts. Sensitive information like social security numbers, credit card information and bank account details are now stored in cloud storage services like Dropbox or Google Drive. The fact of the matter is whether you are an individual, small business or large multinational, you rely on computer systems every day. Pair this with the rise in cloud services, poor cloud service security, smartphones and the Internet of Things (IoT) and we have a many of cyber security threats that didn't exist a few decades ago. We need to understand the difference between cyber security and information security, even though the skillsets are becoming more similar. Governments around the world are bringing more attention to cybercrimes. GDPR is a great example. It has increased the reputational damage of data breaches by forcing all organizations that operate in the EU to: a. Communicate data breaches b. Appoint a data-protection officer c. Require user consent to process information d. Anonymize data for privacy The trend towards public disclosure is not limited to Europe. While there are no national laws overseeing data breach disclosure in the United States, there are data breach laws in all 50 states. Commonalities include: a. The requirement to notify those affect as soon as possible b. Let the government know as soon as possible c. Pay some sort of fine California was the first state to regulate data breach disclosures in 2003, requiring persons or businesses to notify those affected "without reasonable

delay" and "immediately following discovery". Victims can sue for up to $750 and companies can be fined up to $7,500 per victim. This has driven standards boards like the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to release frameworks to help organizations understand their security risks, improve cyber security measures and prevent cyberattacks. Why is cybercrime increasing? Information theft is the most expensive and fastest growing segment of cybercrime. Largely driven by the increasing exposure of identity information to the web via cloud services. But it is not the only target. Industrial controls that manage power grids and other infrastructure can be disrupted or destroyed. And identity theft isn't the only goal, cyber-attacks may aim to compromise data integrity (destroy or change data) to breed distrust in an organization or government. Cybercriminals are becoming more sophisticated, changing what they target, how they affect organizations and their methods of attack for different security systems. Social engineering remains the easiest form of cyber-attack with ransom ware and phishing being the easiest form of entry. Third-party and fourth-party vendors who process your data and have poor cyber security practices are another common attack vector, making vendor risk management and thirdparty risk management all the more important. According to the Ninth Annual Cost of Cybercrime Study from Accenture and the Ponemon Institute, the average cost of cybercrime for an organization has increased by $1.4 million over the last year to $13.0 million and the average number of data breaches rose by 11 percent to 145. Information risk management has never been more important. Data breaches can involve financial information like credit card numbers or bank account details, protected health information (PHI), personally identifiable information (PII), trade secrets, intellectual property and other targets of industrial espionage. Other terms for data breaches include unintentional information disclosure, data leak, cloud leak, information leakage or a data spill. Other factors driving the growth in cybercrime include: a. The distributed nature of the Internet b. The ability for cybercriminals to attack targets outside their jurisdiction making policing extremely difficult. c. Increasing profitability and ease of commerce on the dark web What is the impact of cybercrime? A lack of focus on cyber security can damage your business in range of ways including: a. Economic costs Theft of intellectual property, corporate information, disruption in trading and the cost of repairing damaged systems. b. Reputational costs Loss of consumer trust, loss of current and future customers to competitors and poor media coverage. c. Regulatory costs GDPR and other data breach laws mean that your organization could suffer from regulatory fines or sanctions as a result of cybercrimes. All businesses, regardless of the size, must ensure all staff understands cyber security threats and how to mitigate them. This should include regular training and a framework to work with to that aims to reduce the risk of data leaks or data breaches. Given the nature of cybercrime and how difficult it can be to detect, it is difficult to understand the direct and indirect costs of many security breaches. This doesn't mean the reputational damage of even a small data breach or other security event is not large. If anything, consumers expect increasingly sophisticated cyber security measures as time goes on. How to protect your organization against cybercrime? There are three simple steps you can take you increase security and reduce risk of cybercrime:

Educate all levels of your organization about the risks of social engineering and common social engineering scams like phishing emails and typo squatting also known as URL hijacking, is a form of cybersquatting.
Invest in tools that limit information loss, monitor your third-party risk and fourth-party vendor risk and continuously scan for data exposure and leak credentials.
Use technology to reduce costs like automatically sending out vendor assessment questionnaires as part of an overall cyber security risk assessment strategy. Examples of damages to companies affected by cyber-attacks and data breaches The amount of cyber-attacks and data breaches in the recent years is staggering and it's easy to produce a laundry list of companies who are household names that have been affected. Here's a few examples:
Equifax The Equifax cybercrime identity theft event affected approximately 145.5 million U.S. consumers along with 400,000-44 million British residents and 19,000 Canadian residents. Equifax shares dropped 13% in early trading the day after the breach and numerous lawsuits were filed against Equifax as a result of the breach. Not to mention the reputational damage that Equifax suffered. On July 22 2019, Equifax agreed to a settlement with the FTC which included a $300 million fund for victim compensation, $175m for states and territories in the agreement and $100 million in fines.
eBay Between February and March 2014, eBay was the victim of a breach of encrypted passwords, which resulted in asking all of its 145 million users to reset their password. Attackers used a small set of employee credentials to access this trove of user data. The stolen information included encrypted passwords and other personal information, including names, e-mail addresses, physical addresses, phone numbers and dates of birth. The breach was disclosed in May 2014, after a month-long investigation by eBay.
Adult Friend Finder In October 2016, hackers collected 20 years of data on six databases that included names, email addresses and passwords for The Friend Finder Network. The Friend Finder Network includes websites like Adult Friend Finder, Penthouse.com, Cams.com, iCams.com and Stripshow.com. Most of the passwords were protected only by the weak SHA-1 hashing algorithm, which meant that 99% of them had been cracked by the time LeakedSource.com published its analysis of the entire data set on November 14.
Yahoo Yahoo disclosed that a breach in August 2013 by a group of hackers had compromised 1 billion accounts. In this instance, security questions and answers were also compromised, increasing the risk of identity theft. The breach was first reported by Yahoo on December 14, 2016, and forced all affected users to change passwords, and to reenter any unencrypted security questions and answers to make them encrypted in the future. However, by October of 2017, Yahoo changed the estimate to 3 billion user accounts. An investigation revealed that users' passwords in clear text, payment card data and bank information were not stolen. Nonetheless, this remains one of the largest data breaches of this type in history. What is cyber defense? Cyber defense is a computer network defense mechanism which includes response to actions and critical infrastructure protection and information assurance for organizations, government entities and other possible networks. Cyber defense focuses on preventing, detecting and providing timely responses to attacks or threats so that no infrastructure or information is tampered with. With the growth in volume as well as complexity of cyber-attacks, cyber defense is essential for most entities in order to protect sensitive information as well as to safeguard assets. Cyber defense protects your most important business assets against attack. By aligning the knowledge of the threats you face with an understanding of your environment, you’re able to maximize the effectiveness of your security spend and target your resources at the critical locations. All this is driven from your business strategy, by identifying where it may be at risk from a range of threats - from a malicious insider right through to Advanced Persistent Threats (APT). Cyber defense covers a wide range of activities that are essential in enabling your business to protect itself against attack and respond to a rapidly evolving threat landscape. This will include:
Cyber preventions to reduce your appeal to the attackers.
Preventative controls that require their attacks to be more costly.
Attack detection capability to spot when they are targeting you.
Reaction and response capabilities to repel them. Typically a cyber-defense engagement will include a range of services aimed at long term assurance of your business - from the understanding of how security impacts your business strategy and priorities, through to training and guidance that helps your employees establish the right security culture. At the same time, the engagement will include specialist technical analysis and investigation to make sure you can map out and protect the paths attackers will use to compromise your most sensitive assets. These activities also enable you to obtain evidence of any previous threats that have breached your defenses and providing the capability to manage or remove them as needed. Using this blend of services, cyber defense provides the assurances you need to run your business without worrying about the threats it faces, and makes sure your security strategy utilizes your resources in the most effective manner. Enterprise Security within an Enterprise Architecture Context An Enterprise Security Architecture is a structure of organizational, conceptual, logical, and physical components that interact to achieve and maintain a state of managed risk and security. Enterprise Security Architecture is also a driver and enabler of secure, resilient, and reliable behavior that addresses and mitigates security risks throughout the enterprise. That's essentially what security architecture is all about except it never exists in isolation - it needs enterprise architecture to reside in. Lastly, security architecture is a process - it's something you do - not something you can buy. One of the biggest learning’s is that security architecture and information security are not just technology problems - security is not a technical problem to be solved - it's a risk to be managed. Let's take a look at these aspects in a little more detail. "It doesn't exist in isolation", "it's a process - something you do", and "security is a risk to be managed not a problem to be solved". In the diagram below I'm showing how the phases in TOGAF EA artifact’s produced from TOGAF relate to security architecture highlighting the core security and risk concepts that are used in Information Security Management (ISM) and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). Security architecture flows from enterprise architecture. So regardless of whether you use TOGAF, Zachman or another framework the artifact’s (outputs) produced from EA become the inputs and the starting point for defining your security architecture. Enterprise Security Architecture is also the design artifacts that describe how the security controls are positioned (security posture), and how they relate to the overall IT Architecture. These controls serve the purpose to maintain quality attributes, among them confidentiality, integrity, availability, nonrepudiation, accountability and assurance.
Information Sheet 2.1 OVERVIEW OF COMMERCIAL ISSUES ON SECURITY Learning Objectives: After reading this INFORMATION SHEET, YOU MUST be able to:

Have a knowledge about cryptography.
Have a knowledge about the types of cryptographic techniques.
Identify some application that is using cryptography. Human being from ages had two inherent needs:
To communicate and share information.
To communicate selectively. These two needs gave rise to the art of coding the messages in such a way that only the intended people could have access to the information. Unauthorized people could not extract any information, even if the scrambled messages fell in their hand. a. The art and science of concealing the messages to introduce secrecy in information security is recognized as cryptography. The word cryptography was coined by combining two Greek words, Krypto meaning hidden and graphene meaning writing.
What is Cryptography? Cryptography is about constructing and analyzing protocols that prevent third parties or the public from reading private messages; various aspects in information security such as data confidentiality, data integrity, authentication, and non- repudiation are central to modern cryptography. Modern cryptography exists at the intersection of the disciplines of mathematics, computer science, electrical engineering, communication science, and physics. Applications of cryptography include electronic commerce, chip-based payment cards, digital currencies, computer passwords, and military communications. Cryptography is associated with the process of converting ordinary plain text into unintelligible text and vice-versa. It is a method of storing and transmitting data in a particular form so that only those for whom it is intended can read and process it. Cryptography not only protects data from theft or alteration, but can also be used for user authentication. Earlier cryptography was effectively synonymous with encryption but nowadays cryptography is mainly based on mathematical theory and computer science practice.

Modern cryptography concerns with: a. Confidentiality Information cannot be understood by anyone. b. Integrity Information cannot be altered. c. Non-repudiation Sender cannot deny his/her intentions in the transmission of the information at a later stage. d. Authentication Sender and receiver can confirm each. Cryptography is used in many applications like banking transactions cards, computer passwords, and e- commerce transactions. Three types of cryptographic techniques used in general. a. Symmetric-key cryptography Both the sender and receiver share a single key. The sender uses this key to encrypt plaintext and send the cipher text to the receiver. On the other side the receiver applies the same key to decrypt the message and recover the plain text. b. Hash functions No key is used in this algorithm. A fixed-length hash value is computed as per the plain text that makes it impossible for the contents of the plain text to be recovered. Hash functions are also used by many operating systems to encrypt passwords.

c. Public-key cryptography This is the most revolutionary concept in the last 300-400 years. In Public-Key Cryptography two related keys (public and private key) are used. Public key may be freely distributed, while its paired private key, remains a secret. The public key is used for encryption and for decryption private key is used.

can you test me or make a test for me based on this contents that i send make sure the test is a true or false , enumaration and acronyms


Sure! Here is a test based on the content you provided. The test includes True or False questions, Enumeration, and Acronyms.